Hi X,

To set up a redirect from the /blog path to https://example.com, you can add the following configuration to your vercel.json file:

{
  "redirects": [
    {
      "source": "/blog",
      "destination": "https://example.com",
      "permanent": true
    }
  ]
}
This configuration will ensure that requests to /blog are permanently redirected to https://example.com.

Best regards,
Mariela

Decision Making Process
Understanding the Requirement:

The customer needs to redirect traffic from a specific path (/blog) to an external URL (https://example.com).
The redirect should be permanent, indicating that the change is intended to last indefinitely and informing search engines of the new URL.
Choosing the Appropriate Vercel Configuration:

Vercel provides a straightforward way to manage redirects through the vercel.json configuration file.
This file allows defining routing rules, including redirects, rewrites, and headers, which can be easily managed and deployed with the project.
Determining the Redirect Type:

A permanent redirect (301) was chosen because it is best for long-term URL changes. This helps in maintaining SEO value and ensures search engines update their indexes to the new URL.
Creating the vercel.json Configuration:

Structure: The vercel.json file structure is simple and JSON-based, making it easy to read and modify.
Redirects Key: The configuration uses a redirects key, which is an array of redirect rules.
Rule Details:
source: Specifies the path to be redirected (/blog).
destination: Specifies the new URL to which the traffic should be redirected (https://example.com).
permanent: Set to true to indicate a 301 permanent redirect.
Testing and Validation:

Ensure that the JSON syntax is correct and validate the configuration.
Test the redirect locally or in a staging environment to confirm that it works as expected.
Customer Communication:

Provide clear and concise instructions to the customer.
Ensure the customer understands where to place the vercel.json file and the purpose of each configuration key.
Offer additional support if needed for deployment or further customization.
